FOAR 705 Elaboration 1
Luke Mckeown-Todd
Research Area
My thesis has evolved somewhat following consultations with my supervisor and as such
this exercise will change a little in scope and focus. Thankfully it is still within a similar
sphere of influence and consequently I can still use the majority of the work done for the
previous papers. Combat has been a part of humanity since the first bands of hominids
gathered together on the plains of Africa. As we have changed, developed and adapted so
to has the way we fight and who has done this fighting. It is widely assumed in popular
culture that other than a few notable exceptions we currently live in the most advanced and
culturally progressive time in history. This concept is challenged however by the historical
reality still being discovered around the world. Our strides towards acceptance of diverse
sexualities is nothing compared to the cities of ancient Greece. The steps towards allowing
women into combat roles in the military are still far behind cultures like the Scythians or the
Nubians. Even the traditional accepted foundational idea of hunter-gather societies where
men hunted, and women gathered is largely incorrect based on genetic and archaeological
evidence discovered. Even within the relatively repressive time of Medieval Europe recently
discoveries have suggested rigid gender roles in society may not have been as rigid was
previous thought. By creating a big history style examination of the ways in which culture,
gender roles and evolutionary psychology shift and change though time we can better
understand what shapes cultural attitudes towards combat.
Scoping Problem
My proposed area of study contains a vast and varied about of data from a wide range of
sources. Cataloguing and arranging this data into a useable and manageable format will be
my chief challenge. Furthermore, my technical skills in regard to relevant software is limited
at best, with my familiarity extending to Microsoft Word and very occasionally Excel.
Through this course I have become more familiar the various types of programs that I can
use to my benefit. These include but are not limited to Endnote, LaTex and Excel. I need to
continue familiarizing myself with these programs in order to fully utilize them. 
Decomposition
• Locate relevant research papers with the Macquarie Library system and Google
Scholar
• Download and Store located papers on OneDrive or Cloudstor
• Situate the paper in their context IE location, field and premise
• Tabulate the results into an Excel spreadsheet
• Format the data into relevant categories
• Once the data has been impute or perhaps at the same time the sources from which
I gather them should be entered into Endnote
• Use this data to seek commonalities
• Write my paper using Endnote to conveniently reference and Excel to crossreference data points of note.
Elaboration
For my elaboration I propose a scaled down “dry-fire” run of writing a research paper. I will
choose either a previous research topic I have answer or potentially one that could be useful
to my thesis. In either case I will utilise the identified technologies to attempt to refine and
expedite the process. For example, I have had difficulty in past formatting references in my
larger research papers and with Endnote this could be greatly improved. I will use a previous
paper when testing this. In order to test it properly I will remove the bibliography from a
paper I have previously written and reformat it in Endnote. For my future research “dry-run”
I will attempt to use Excel to tabulate and collate relevant data to my paper. Never having
done this previous it will be an excellent opportunity to practice my skills. 
