Elaboration 2
Luke Mckeown-Todd
Test 1: Using Endnote, Excel and OneDrive I will collate data about a previous
research topic I have investigate and attempt to organize the references in a
more efficient fashion.
• Using Macquarie’s Library system and Google Scholar I located data concerning
Australian War Memorials. They build dates, locations and relevant histography
surrounding their construction.
• I downloaded these sources and stored them on my OneDrive enabling ease of
access later.
• Using a rudimentary spreadsheet, I collated the data in Excel sorting the memorials
by built date, location and whether or not they mention, referenced or celebrated
women.
• Using this data, I was able to uncover several unknown (to me) facts about the
Sydney War Memorial surrounding its construction and its inclusion of women in its
monumental statues. This became the basis for a recent research paper about using
War Memorials as a historical archive in research.
• My biggest pressure point was the use of EndNote of which I still struggle to fully
utilise. I could not get it to format properly in the time I allotted for the task and
ended up manually formatting it in Word. Further practice is needed.
Test 2: Using Endnote, Excel and OneDrive I will attempt to collect relevant
data for my upcoming thesis.
• Once again utilising Macquarie’s Library system and Google Scholar I have begun to
locate sources surround incidents of cultures with women warriors in history. This is
directly related to my potential thesis Why Women Fight: A Big History analysis of
evolutionary psychology, gender roles and combat.
• I have created an archive/directory for these files in my OneDrive.
• I downloaded and stored several sources in this directory.
• I have not as yet tabulated them into a spreadsheet as I am uncertain as to the exact
data that I am looking to extract from these sources.
• Never-the-less I used these sources in for a pitch I am giving about my thesis in
Research Frontiers. 
Summary
The tests in Elaboration have concluded largely successfully. I was able to use the
research gathering tools effectively in conjunction with storage and archiving tools
My continued use of Excel is increasing my command of the software and I
experienced fewer issues in managing my data that’s to the datacarpentry exercises.
I experienced a few issues in full integrating EndNote into the process but in
undertaking the second test I as able to wrangle into a useable format. These
programs and potentially others will prove invaluable at expediting my research in
future. 
