25/08/2019
Continuing with the data-carpentry excersizes we move on to the third lesson, working with files and directories.
I created a directory called Thesis using the mkdir command 
I used nano to open up a text editor and create a file called draft.txt
I attempted to rename draft.txt but was unable to
I discovered that i was not in the right directory used cd to return to the top 
I then used mv to rename draft.txt to quotes.txt
I created a back for my thesis directory using the cp command 
I attempted to use the rm command was unable to proceed
I’m not sure how to proceed and will have to seek guidance in class
Similar issues encountered with matching will seek guidance in class
‘
30/08/2019
Attempting Lesson 4 Pipes and Filters
Immediately encountered an issue where although data-shell has been correctly extracted to my desktop gitbash cannot locate it.
Cannot proceed with commands as cannot access data-shell/molecules 
Next excersize has also proven difficult. The > and >> command produce identical results for no discernable reason and the lesson doesn’t account for this possibility.
TBC

2/09/2019
Attempting lesson 5 & 6
Successfully created new file using nano called middle.sh
Successfully saved said file 
Could not locate the file once saved for the same reason as last time. Unknown error
Successfully created commands to sort data within directory 
I believe the issue is that for an unknown reason gitbash cannot see my data-shell files and therefore they are impossible access





3/09/2019 
 Attempting lesson 7
Have come closer to understanding issue surrounding being unable to locate data-shell. I extracted the data-shell files to a folder called data-shell. Thus data-shell is inside data-shell and adding the extra folder has enabled me to locate the directory.
However, despite having located the directory i am unable to access it for some reason that i still can’t understand. 
Have attempted the lessons in a theoretic rather than practical capacity, not ideal but i think i am getting a handle on the command functions of gitbash. 
Rather than simply bashing my head against a non-functioning interface i will once again seek help in class and in the mean time memorize the functions as they are listed in the lesson. 

4/09/2019 
Today i undertook my elaboration exercises. 
I used the researching tools and OneDrive to discover and collate data for a recently completed project. I then used Excel to tabulate and cross-reference the relevant data about War Memorials. I experienced issues working with EndNote due to my unfamiliarity with the system but with the second test i was able to ameliorate those issues somewhat. I anticipate a great deal of utility using these programs in future with my research. 
