FOAR 705 Scoping Exercise Week 3
Luke Mckeown-Todd 42599237
Jobs
In preparation for the writing of my thesis the jobs that I must undertake will include but
not be limited to:
• Collecting and cataloguing various relevant research journals and sources.
• Design my actual thesis and relating study, it will I think be a cross-examination of
established sources.
• Ensure a consistency of referencing as well as a higher quality of footnotes perhaps
achieved through the use of EndNote.
• Work consciously to improve my writing skills.
Pains
• I have in the past had an unfortunate tendency to leave my assignments to the last
minute. This has resulted in lowered marks and higher stress on my part. Upon
introspection I have determined this is due an unfortunate habit of mine where once
I feel like I’m getting overwhelmed I simply shutdown and leave what I’m doing. It
works for the stress but results in my work being last minute and rushed.
• I also have a grand, overarching tendency to make broad, sweeping statements that
encompass a great deal and are in fact supported by little actual evidence. This I fell
stems from a desire to tell a story with my work rather than have it be a cold, logical
argument. It makes for interesting reading but poor academic work.
• Thirdly and possibly responsible for the first two I have a great deal of difficulty with
time management. I struggle to allocate enough time to fully understand the content
and often find my life interfering with my allotted study time. 
AUGUST, 2019 2
Pain Relievers
• In regard to my above issues I propose that I attempt to create a timetable and stick
to it as much as possible. This will help me spend an appropriate amount of time on
each task as well as help to avoid the last-minute rush. If I can manage this then I will
have enough evidence to help me construct a well-reasoned argument. Hopefully it
will also help me to clearly delineate between study time and the rest of my life.
• Similarly, to a timetable if I construct a scaffold for my essay ahead of time with
headings and sub-headings it would well me to stay on topic and avoid those grand
narratives I love so much.
Gains
• I would like to gain an understanding of programs such as EndNote and Excel as I feel
this would both help my future research as well as making me more employable in
the job market.
Gain Creators
• At this point I shall continue with the Data Carpentry lessons and hone my grasp of
the basics, but I hope to expand that knowledge to other more specialized programs
as well. After all the more I learn here, the more opportunities will be open to me in
the future
